Deadline, deadline, my career is on the
line.
Deadline, deadline, why didn't I press
save this time? Oh, damn, damn, damn.
Bro,
just do everything with AI.
What the
Who are you? And what are you doing in
my room? Relax, bro.
I'm here to save you.
Save him? Seriously? AI is not the
answer to everything.
>> Bro doesn't need philosophy. Bro needs
to deliver the project.
>> artist, not [music] some prompt guy.
>> Deadline doesn't care about art.
>> years mastering this craft.
>> And right now he's about to miss the
deadline, bro.
>> Hey!
WOULD YOU TWO SHUT UP? WHAT THE HELL IS
GOING ON HERE? EASY, BRO.
We're your inner voices. Wait. What? You
haven't slept for 3 days, and you've
been living on coffee and pizza. You're
fried, bro. With this schedule, you'll
end up meeting my boss soon.
Or mine.
>> [laughter]
>> Anyway, just make the whole project with
AI.
>> Absolutely not. He's a 3D generalist
with 15 years of experience.
>> hey, hey, stop, guys, okay?
I got it.
We make a compromise.
Look,
in this video, we'll take a look at how
to work with video references in C Dance
2. We'll use playblast animations and
turn them into a final rendered shot.
I'll show several examples, from simple
static scenes to more complex and
dynamic ones. We'll also compare the
traditional CGI pipeline with AI
workflows and see how these two
approaches can be combined. For
generation, I'm using Flashboard. C
Dance 2 is available inside it.
As I mentioned earlier, I already have a
playblast. For those who are not
familiar with 3D, let me quickly explain
what that means. A playblast, also known
as a flipbook, viewport render, or
preview animation, is a fast preview of
your animation. It renders directly from
the viewport of the software, skipping
the long process of final rendering. Its
main purpose is to check timing, motion
smoothness, and the overall dynamics of
the scene without waiting for lighting
and materials to render. You can also
render without materials, but in most
cases, a playblast is enough, and it's
faster because even a simple render
still takes some time.
Now, let's move to Flashboard. So, I
prepared a reference image for this
scene. I generated it using Nano Banana
Pro.
Into the model, we add the playblast
animation and the reference image.
Notice that when you upload a video, the
option to choose generation length
becomes disabled.
My first prompt was extremely simple,
and as expected, it worked poorly, but I
still wanted to test how simple a prompt
could be while still producing a usable
result.
I ran a few tests with different
prompts. I added more description to the
prompt, and this is the result I got.
This time, the generations turned out
much better.
I tried generating the video again using
the same prompt, but the result was
almost exactly the same. Then I
strengthened the prompt. I locked the
camera and all movements in the scene so
they matched the original video. The
results became more stable, but still
not perfect. The final part of the scene
looked good, but at the beginning, the
materials were missing. The model simply
didn't know how the trees and other
elements should look in the first frame.
So, I created another reference image in
Nano Banana to help the model understand
what the scene looks like at the very
beginning. I specifically chose a frame
where the beetle is also visible. Thanks
to the stronger prompt, plus the
starting and ending reference images, I
finally got the result I wanted. This
time, everything looks good right from
the first frame. The forest finally has
textures, and the beetle looks great,
too. After that, I started
experimenting. I added a line in the
prompt describing camera animation at
the end. I wanted the camera to make a
fly-around move around the campfire at
the end of the animation. As you can
see, the animation stays the same at the
beginning, but towards the end, the
camera starts a new additional movement.
After several attempts, I realized this
would be difficult. The model couldn't
properly handle that extra edit at the
end, but something interesting happened.
The model actually extended the video
while preserving the movement up to the
last moment. The original video length
is 8 seconds, and here is the generated
version with the continuation. I made
several more attempts with different
variations of the ending. This time, I
tried describing the camera movement as
if it was shot with an FPV drone, and
the result actually worked for me. But
when I tried one more time, the model
added new objects at the end of the
frame, including an FPV drone.
Then I tested another version, a 2D
style render.
This time, I used only one reference
image and the same prompt as before. At
the end of the prompt, I added one more
line to lock the style for all frames of
the video. C Dance handled this task
well, too, but for higher quality
results in similar cases, it's still
better to use two reference images.
Next, I ran several tests to better
understand the capabilities of C Dance 2
as a rendering tool for 3D animation.
Let's start simple, a static camera, one
object in the scene. The object starts
in the frame and does not change
position. This time, I generated the
reference image using Nano Banana Pro. I
did it like this. Take a frame from the
video and process it through Nano
Banana. To extract a frame from the
video, select the video, click the three
dots, and choose extract frame. If you
need another frame, select it in the
player and repeat the same process. For
Nano Banana Pro, I used the playblast
frame and a collage of style references.
Unfortunately, I lost that collage while
recording the tutorial, but that's not
critical. The result is the reference
image we need for the final render. Then
we upload the playblast animation and
the image into C Dance 2. I used the
same prompt as before.
All right, now let's check out the
result.
And wow, it looks amazing.
I ran five generations in a row with the
same prompt to get a more objective
result. Four out of five generations
turned out excellent. Let's compare it
with the reference video. In this case,
everything worked perfectly. As you can
see, the generated video matches the
reference animation perfectly. This test
of C Dance 2 was a complete success.
Next test. The camera is still static,
but now we have multiple characters and
they flap their wings very fast. Again,
I extracted a frame from the video and
generated a reference image using Nano
Banana Pro. I generated the video with
the same prompt as before, but this
time, the results didn't turn out as
well as in the previous scene. And I
really didn't like that the wings were
not moving like in the original
animation. The flies are meant to flap
their wings really fast. Right now,
they're not doing it at all. So, I
strengthened the prompt. At the end, I
added that the flies rapidly flap their
wings. Another interesting observation,
sometimes C Dance generates videos
without a watermark. So, I added a
phrase in the prompt to test whether it
would increase the chance of getting a
clean result. You'll see that phrase in
some of the next examples. Anyway, back
to the animation. This time, the wing
movement became much closer to the
playblast animation, and the camera also
stayed locked. I like this result. C
Dance performed better when I gave it a
prompt, although not all five
generations were perfect.
Moving on.
Static camera again, but the objects are
not in the scene at the beginning.
They appear after some time. Using the
same workflow, I created the final
reference image with Nano Banana Pro.
The prompt for C Dance 2 was also the
same as in the previous test. At the
beginning, as expected, there are no
objects in the frame. Then a TV falls
into the scene, a fly flies in and lands
on it. Great result. Let's take a look
at the other four generations.
Two out of five generations produced
exactly what I expected.
Let's compare the working version with
the playblast. All the motion is
preserved. The fly and the TV in the
generated video perfectly match the
reference animation. This is an
excellent result. The next test is more
complex. The scene has more objects,
camera movement, and even a transition
from one scene to another. The horse
gets squashed. At that moment, all the
elements in the scene disappear, and a
fly appears. It flies up to a small
piece of poop and starts rubbing its
little hands together. Since there are
two scenes, I generated two reference
images. Obviously, the first image shows
the scene with the horse, and the second
one shows the fly. For the test, I first
tried generating using only one image.
At first, everything goes smoothly. The
horse stretches and then gets squashed.
But at the moment when the scene
changes, the result is obvious. The
second scene looked the same as the
first, which doesn't work for me.
So, I modified the prompt and added two
images for the first and last frames,
just like I did with the forest
animation scene. Let's take a look at
the first four generations. After the
horse gets squashed, the objects start
disappearing, and the scene transforms
into a different one. This time, we got
very good results in all cases, except
for a few minor imperfections that are
easy to overlook. For tasks like this, C
Dance 2 works perfectly. So, I can
confidently say that C Dance 2 is
perfect for tasks like this.
Then I moved on to more complex tests. I
took a dancing mannequin from Mixamo,
imported it into Cinema 4D, and animated
the camera. I made a playblast on a
blank background, and used my own
character as the reference image. Then
we load everything into C Dance 2 and
see what happens. I used the same
familiar prompt again. The camera is
moving incorrectly, and the character
looks weird, too. In this case, it did
not work well. C Dance does not
understand what is happening around the
character. The character's movement and
scale also don't match the original.
Here are a few more generations with the
same prompt. As you can see, the
character performs completely chaotic
movements,
and the first example I showed was
actually the best out of the five.
For the next test with the dancing
character, I added something like a
floor or ground so the model would have
at least some information about the
environment. And for the image
reference, I placed the main character
in a city environment. The prompt stayed
the same. In this case, the camera
movement became closer to the original,
but overall the results were still not
very good compared to the other tests.
The character is making weird movements.
In one video, he's not in the frame at
all. Next, I added environment elements
to the scene so the model would have
more information to imitate. I added a
huge plane and large cubic objects to
simulate houses around the character. To
make sure these objects didn't blend
into a single color, I added a
checkerboard texture.
The prompt remained the same.
In most cases, the camera behaved
reasonably well, but the character's
movement was still strange in some
places.
He constantly does somersaults, even
though that is not in the prompt and not
in the reference video.
Then I made the scene with the dancing
character who already had a floor and
surroundings more complex. I wanted to
add some action so I placed a car
drifting around the main character in
the frame. I created a new reference
image using the same workflow as before.
Using the same prompt as in the previous
test, I got the following result. The
character is trying to dance, but the
camera moves completely wrong and the
car isn't moving at all. Then I added an
enhanced prompt to more strongly lock
all movements. From an animation
transfer perspective, everything looks
great, but our main character has turned
back into the dummy from the reference.
And I also tested the previous prompt
again, but this time I added a
description of what is happening in the
scene. So far, this version is the best
one. Finally, I created a fully enhanced
prompt with a description of the scene.
Looking at all the results, it actually
doesn't seem much better than the
previous simpler prompt. So my
conclusion is that SeeDance 2 still
struggles with very complex motion. You
can sometimes get a good result in
complex scenes like this, but it's more
a matter of luck and getting it
consistently is quite difficult.
However, when it comes to simpler
movements, especially smooth ones,
including camera movement and character
motion, SeeDance 2 performs very well.
The main advantage of AI video
generation is its simplicity and speed,
but the downside is limited control and
occasional model hallucinations. In CGI,
on the other hand, you have complete
control over every stage of the process,
but it's also an extremely long,
complex, and expensive workflow.
Projects like this are usually handled
by teams of 10 to 15 people or even
more. Production can take 6 months to a
full year, and naturally, that makes it
very expensive. As artists, we can
combine the strengths of both approaches
and significantly speed up the pipeline,
especially during look development and
rendering. We take the control from CGI,
the speed from AI, and end up with a
very powerful and practical workflow.
Let me know in the comments what you
think about this approach. I'd love to
discuss different production workflows
with you. If you enjoyed the video,
don't forget to like it and subscribe to
the channel if you haven't already.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in
the next video.